When you go to deliver a presentation,
you have a very short amount of time to
hook the audience's attention. It's
almost unfair. They're going to judge
very quickly whether or not they think
that your presentation is interesting.
And in this video, I am going to share
some of the things you should do and
some of the things you should not do
when opening your speech. When I first
began in the job role that I currently
have, I've been with my company for
about 12 years, it wasn't explained to
me that public speaking would be a huge
part of what I do. And I'll never forget
my then boss walked into my office and
she explained, "By the way, Wade, I'd
like you to give a presentation to a
room full of about 60 people in a couple
of weeks. It should be about half an
hour long." and she walked out and the
panic started to set in. Well, I've
learned over the years that one of the
best things you can do if you're
delivering a speech is to hook the
audience's attention early. And
hopefully I did that with this tip
because my first tip, the most powerful
thing you can do to start your speech is
to start with a story. jump right into
the content, some form of story that
relates to whatever it is that you're
going to talk about. There's a statistic
that's out there that indicates that
stories are remembered 22 times more
than facts alone. And one of my favorite
speakers, Valerie Garcia, has this great
quote, "Never tell a story without a
point and never make a point without
telling a story." Because when you tell
a story, it helps the audience remember
it's going to be more memorable and then
they are more likely to take the value
from your speech. So starting off with a
story, immersing the audience in
whatever it is that your story is is the
most powerful way you can start your
speech. What you don't want to do when
it comes to delivering a speech is go
too in-depth with formalities.
Hi everyone. For those who don't know
me, my name is Wade and I'm the best
man. Next time you're at a wedding, I
want you to make a little check mark
every time you hear someone start a
speech that way because I will bet that
at least one speech will start like
that. We feel this need to introduce
ourselves, to explain why we're there.
But the reality is the audience already
knows. There's probably an MC at the
wedding or at the event who has
introduced you. There may be an agenda
or a program that has your name on it.
You don't need to spend time off the
beginning, that valuable time you need
to hook the audience's attention. You
should not waste that opportunity by
giving boring formalities, talking about
your title, explaining at a high level
what you're going to talk about. You can
do that much more creatively.
Push that into the speech a little bit
and instead start off with something
that's interesting that will truly
capture the audience's attention.
Something like stories. One of the best
ways you can start your speech is to
implement humor. And the reason humor is
very powerful is it does two things.
One, it relaxes the audience. Often
audiences are going to be wondering, is
this going to be an interesting speech?
Am I going to get any value from this?
And the sooner you can make them laugh,
they relax. They think this speaker
knows what he or she is doing. This is
going to be an enjoyable session.
But on the flip side, what humor does is
it relaxes you, the speaker. The quicker
you're able to hear the audience
laughing, you can rest assured that
they're enjoying themselves, and that's
going to give you an instant boost of
confidence, which is going to allow you
to do an incredible job with the rest of
the speech. The next thing you don't
want to do when giving a speech is the
speaker stutter.
What is the speaker stutter?
How's everyone doing today? What's that?
I can't hear you. Can you get a little
bit louder? Oh, again, my friend Valerie
Garcia, who I've quoted a few times in
my videos, she hates this. She She
quoted the speaker stutter. She gave me
that term. And that's what it is. Those
cringy things that speakers say when
they take the stage, asking the audience
to get louder. I can't hear you. Come
on, we can do better than that.
It's not the best way to start the
speech. Or by saying, "How about the
weather out there? Yeah, I thought it
might rain today."
Boring, unnecessary.
Don't do the speaker stutter when you're
delivering a speech. Instead, you want
to jump into something powerful like a
story or a humorous joke or something
that's going to get the audience
laughing. But don't waste that early
opportunity of your speech with the
speaker stutter. Another thing you can
do to hook your audience's attention is
to share a powerful stat that's going to
surprise them or ask a thought-provoking
question by doing this. And an example
I've used in the past is the question if
you're a business owner, are we about to
be disrupted or are we the disruptors?
When you can ask a question that almost
threatens or creates some friction for
the people who are in the audience, it
makes them question what they thought
they previously knew. Now you've got
their attention. Now something's at
stake and you can go further into the
content. Same thing with a powerful
stat, something that's unexpected.
Either of these options is much better
than a formality or getting the
audience, I can't hear you. Can you get
a little bit louder? Those are cringy
ways to open a speech. But by asking a
question or sharing a surprising stat,
you're going to do a much better job of
getting and keeping your audience's
attention. The final way I want you to
avoid opening your speech is by
apologizing.
When new speakers get up on stage,
sometimes they feel the need that they
have to say to the audience, "I'm sorry,
I'm not really a public speaker. I'm
incredibly nervous."
If you say those things, the audience is
immediately going to likely discredit or
think less of whatever it is that you're
going to talk about. You don't need to
make apologies. If you are on stage, you
have probably been asked for a reason.
There is some form of value that you can
share with your audience. So, don't feel
the need to make excuses or to
apologize.
Do your best to prepare to practice for
your speaking opportunity and then give
it your best shot. Go on stage, be as
confident as possible, and you will do a
great job. I hope this video on various
ways to open your speech to hook your
audience's attention is valuable. If it
was beneficial, please consider
subscribing to my channel and check out
the video that YouTube is suggesting you